Paula thanks so much for being here
where I'm talking about Cardiff world
hub mountain to 16 now the world half
marathon championships for you is
obviously part of your DNA because I
think it was the first world title that
you want you tell us a little bit about
what it means to you yeah the world half
marathon championships are really
special to me my first title was in two
thousand in Veracruz Mexico and came off
the back of disappointment for me in
finishing fourth in sydney olympic games
after having led for 24 of the 25 laps
and it kind of was the transition and
the boost that I needed at that point to
kind of show me the way towards the
marathon which really was my event later
on but at that stage the half marathon
was my event and it was such a fun event
and just something that I really love
but it gave me my first real title and I
think that probably then gave me the
confidence to go on and get the world
title over the cross country as a senior
in Ostend in 2001 and to back it up with
more world half marathon titles how much
do you think you know mo farah and other
british distance runners being able to
kind of prepare for the race in cardiff
this year and look forward to that do
you think it's something important for
the local runners definitely I mean if I
think back to my second world half
marathon title in Bristol in 2001 the
fact that it was in the UK on home
ground with the support that that meant
but just the fact that it was in my home
country made it that much more special
and I think it will be especially in
both ways for the runners because they
want to perform on home ground but
they'll also have a lot more support and
almost home advantage for them excellent
and Cardiff the course actually is
obviously very flat and it's a beautiful
scenic course but I think it's very fast
so what do you think I mean is it
possible that it could be a world record
there I think it's possible yes like you
say Cardiff is it's it's a flat course
it's a beautiful city so it's motivating
scenery and surroundings to run around
I'm sure that the city will really get
behind the event and there'll be lots of
support out on the streets and the
weather that time of year march in the
UK can actually I mean people will think
oh it's not great where they've been
marching the UK but from
it's probably ideal especially for
trying to run first times over the half
marathon distance what do you think
about this concept of 20,000 amateur
runners signing up to be able to run in
the footsteps of the champions of the
elite I mean it's a great idea isn't it
is it's a really special idea i think it
unites the the mass runners with the
elite runners and if you think about it
running and road running is probably the
only sport that were we can do that
where you can stand on the start line
with 25,000 other runners and all know
that you're going to go through the same
motions you're going to run the same
course everybody's going to have good
times in the race and bad tough times
here and you can share all of that and
you can really share that experience and
if a world record is set all the people
are going to be able to say well we ran
in the race that day and that really
means something so I think it's a really
good concept to sort of spread the the
fun and the enjoyment of running but
just the atmosphere as well thank you
very much thank you